# Python North East General Meeting

## Particulars

Date - 4th December 2012
Time - 6:00pm - 8:00pm
Venue - The Bridge Hotel, Newcastle upon Tyne

## Attendees

Jamie Curle (chair)
Kieran Darcy
David Jeffrey (secretary)
Simon Oran

## Introduction

The meeting was called for by members of the 
[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/python-north-east](PNE Google Group)
following three broadly successful meet-ups in recent months, to disuss the
group in general terms.  The meeting was open to anyone who wished to participate.

## Agenda

- Purpose and general policy of the group
- Defining roles for members of the organisation
- Community
- Finance
- Group brand and identity
- The role of education in the group's activities

Discussion of the agenda was held on 
[http://openetherpad.org/python-north-east-official-meeting-dec-2012](Open EtherPad)
(which was unfortunately down for a few days prior to the meeting).

## Minutes

Jamie opened the meeting with a discussion on the purpose of the group. All
agreed that whilst the group currently has momentum, defining some goals so
everyone had a common sense of direction would be beneficial in ensuring the
long-term survival of the group. Jamie also suggested that ultimately we 
could be a large and successful group who should aim high - hosting PyCon UK
would be one such 'audacious feat'.

The group discussed what each present member saw as the overall goal of the
group. For Jamie, the development of a healthy Python community in the region 
important. Simon felt that Python is a great gateway to getting more
people into programming. Everyone agreed that improving the profile of Python
in the region would ultimately benefit existing users of Python.

General policy was discused, as well as the political structuring of the
group. Jamie felt that all power-structures should be flat and there was
general assent. However in order to achieve more in the short-term it was
suggested that we should assign roles. To this end the following roles were
mooted:

- Finance / treasurer
- Secretary and general spokesperson
- Event organiser
- Education coordinator

Each role was discussed. It was felt that each role was non-binding and
that everyone would assist with other roles where necessary. In general
terms, however, the following was mooted:

### Event Organiser
The person in this role would be responsible for organising all events - 
principally meetups but also other events as discussed in the meeting, and 
would also have a role in interfacing with the wider community

### Secretary
This person would be responsible for the administrative side of the group,
handling general communications, and would represent the group as a general
spokesperson.

### Treasurer / finance
It was decided that in the short term this role wouldn't be necessary but
that it would almost certainly become so in future

### Education coordinator
This person would be responsible for handling and organising the education
aspects of the group, as discussed more widely in the meeting.


People present nominated themselves and were voted in to the following roles
by unanimous vote:

- Event organiser - Jamie Curle
- Education coordinator - Kieran Darcy
- Secretary - Dave Jeffrey

In terms of general policy, Kieran suggested that we follow the Bill and Ted
philosophy of 'be excellent to each other'. Simon felt that any disputes or
bad behaviour amongst members of the group should be a bridge to cross at that
time, but Jamie suggested that a general, written policy would be of use. We
were mindful of BritRuby being cancelled around accusations of lack of
diversity. Everyone agreed that we wanted to encourage a diverse membership;
that would be discussed at a later date.

Jamie suggested and all concurred that the group should be fully transparent,
in its structure, communications and finances etc., 'Core' membership simply a
matter of those who volunteer to assist in the running and is open to anybody
willing to donate their time and energy.

## Community

Several aspects of community interaction were raised:

- Linking to other Python groups and other user groups in the North East
- Giving out questionnaires to members so we know what they expect/want, and
  how they heard about us
- The need to promote the group
- Possibly interfacing with the Raspberry Pi group in Newcastle
- What tools should be used; attendees were unsure whether Google Groups puts
  off any potential members. IRC, Skype were suggested as possible other
  ways to get in touch with the membership and wider community. We agreed to
  set-up an opt-in mailing list as well
- It was agreed that the website should be developed further. Jamie raised the
  point that it has to have appeal to portray the group in the right way. It
  was suggested that it could be tendered to students or a group who would be
  willing to design a website for little money or as a portfolio piece
- It was agreed that Dave would set-up google apps and an email address for
  the core membership of the group

It was agreed that the outcome of this meeting would be discussed at the next
meet-up scheduled on the 11th December.

## Finances

- Jamie is happy to continue a certain level of sponsorship; Laura Sharpe is
  (Sharpe Recruitment) also now donating pizzas for our meetups
- It was deemed far too early to consider set-up as a Community Interest Group

## Education

Members of the group feel that education is important and it was noted that
novices make up a fair proportion of attendees. However, Jamie and Dave felt
that the meet-ups are not the most appropriate place for a workshop or for
general Python tutorials; Jamie mooted the idea of a 'Python' drop in day.
He also suggested that not every event should be a meet-up; we could run
community projects and there could well be something happening fortnightly.
Kieran expressed interest in investigating the general education side of the
group. Jamie was also interested in this side as it is relevant to the
workshops he runs (Obscure Metaphor).

## Group brand and identity

This was not discussed in particular detail at this meeting.
